---
title: "Display Your Progress"
date: 2021-05-07T16:04:55+05:30
draft: true
---

# Display your progress
This is my first blog that is highly written on my experiences. The series of upcoming blogs contain all the things that I did on that particular week and the things that I learnt. A focused group of ours from **[Sushiksha](https://sushiksha.konkanischolarship.com/)** sit for a call every night at 9:30 pm at IST to talk about the day. Every time we had to set five goals in the same framework as Pentathlon, which consists of goals like fitness, Wake-up / Sleep cycle, Most important work (MIW), Nutrition and Planning. This month we customized the framework. This time only MIW was kept as it is with a minimum of 1 hour of MIW per day. Habits were introduced. Also, it was all about outcome-based. My goal was to create a portfolio website to show my work more professionally.

On the first day, I decided to create my website from scratch with all the CSS and HTML. It was an overwhelming situation but then has to choose a template and complete the work as soon as possible. The main objective was to create a website of my artworks so that people could it even though if they are not following it just like a catalogue. As you all might know I have an Instagram handle where I post my Digital artworks with my friend making the music. So I and my friend Suryakanth are both creating works for this page. I also thought of making separately a website for cosmix so that it a market place for people who love artworks and music. Coming back I started to make a resume kinda website that had information about me my work and also the blogs. I created a static webpage on my resume and blogs the website also had a contact feature but then was not looking so good.

One of our goals for this week which I did not mention was to read a book. A book named "[Show your work](https://www.amazon.in/Show-Your-Work-Austin-Kleon/dp/076117897X)" by [Austin Kleon](https://austinkleon.com/) gave me the energy and enthusiasm to work harder, also to enjoy the process. The book was mostly about arts and how we could show our work and process as in the book it stated that the work does not speak for itself. People think that without giving any context people can understand what your doing. No, it's wrong we need to explain ourselves or tell it in form of a story so that it connects with the audience. Such a simple thing but we have turned it so complex. By the end of the book, I was excited to write a blog. The book also mentioned buying a domain making it your place. A website is a good place to [Show your work](https://www.amazon.in/Show-Your-Work-Austin-Kleon/dp/076117897X) because it has the flexibility that no other social media platforms can give. Nowadays these social media are controlled by the algorithms that run backend making it effective but it forces you to see the content which it wants to show to you. where a website can only be controlled by you. My mentor [Royal](https://rosequ.github.io/) aslo suggested me to make my own website not depending on medium or other blog sites.

Finally, after revising a ton of bootstrap templates I ended up making a site with a static site generator called [HUGO](https://gohugo.io/). I got a recommendation from [Srinidhi]() Bhat one of the members of our focused group. I wanted a way to have a static site and also having many web pages at the same time. Where I struggled for 5 days for the same. The website you are reading is the same website I am talking about. Maybe after few years, the layout might change. If you want to keep an eye, you can follow me on my Github repository. I am also thankful to myself for not diving into the templates page and search for the ideal one.

All the things I am writing are influenced and inspired by the book [Show your work](https://www.amazon.in/Show-Your-Work-Austin-Kleon/dp/076117897X). I highly recommend the book. I might be having projects from my past work or a college project but that's not enough. So I have decided to work on my artworks daily and show minor progress each week. 
